---
title: "How to leverage different traffic sources to bring you in extra traffic"
excerpt: "If you want to bring traffic to your website or product, there are many
opportunities that allow you to do this. They range from SEO to being
active on social media to cold outreach, among many others."
date: "2024-05-29T10:00:00"
author:
  name: Jorens M
---

If you want to bring traffic to your website or product, there are many
opportunities that allow you to do this. They range from SEO to being
active on social media to cold outreach, among many others.

In this post we will be exploring several ways how one can leverage
different traffic sources to bring additional traffic to their website,
blog or product.

This post is inspired by and based on a [Reddit post by
u/how26](https://www.reddit.com/r/SaaS/comments/1cf4ooc/comment/l1qtzrf/),
in which they share a big and informative chart outlining various
potential traffic sources. They run a company called [Trag](https://usetrag.com/), if you're a developer or
run a tech business, do check them out!

If you are just starting out, it is suggested that besides SEO and cold
outreach, you focus just on one or a few marketing channels at first.

So let's dive in!

## SEO

SEO, or Search Engine Optimization, is the act of making your website
and content in such a way that it is optimized for search engines.
Search engines prefer different types and formats of content over other
types and formats, and put the best ones higher in the results, which
means that if your website is Search Engine Optimized, it will rank
higher and show up higher in the search results of search engines.

There are two important aspects to SEO - content and semantic and
accessible HTML.

-   **Content** - Search engines will rank contentful and relevant pages
    > higher than those that are not so. They will prefer pages that
    > have value and isn't just filler text or marketing hype

-   **Semantic and accessible HTML** - Search engines need the HTML that
    > the page is written in to be semantically correct and accessible,
    > otherwise they might have trouble parsing the content of the page
    > correctly and will not be able to accurately rank your page

If you are interested in learning more about how to do SEO well, you
might want to check out this informative [article about fundamental SEO
principles by
WebFX](https://www.webfx.com/blog/seo/seo-principles/)

### Programmatic SEO

Programmatic SEO is the act of automatizing your content creation and
publishing a lot of content that is also optimized for search engines.
Personally I prefer not to use this method as it can bring a false sense
of value, which can eventually actually damage SEO. So do this method
with caution.

### Blogs, articles

Blogs and articles are a great way to improve your search engine
rankings and one of the most commonly used methods for improving SEO of
small businesses. Creating articles on topics that are relevant to your
target persona are a great way to gain organic traffic from your target
audience. But it is important to write content that provides actual
value to the reader and is not just filler text, otherwise you might
actually rank worse in search engines.

### Landing pages

Landing pages are great if you want your target persona to find a
specific product through search engines. These are great if your product
is the type of product that usually gets found through deliberate
searching, as opposed to when one is just scrolling and exploring
various different products in a catalogue.

In conclusion, SEO is a great method to attract a lot of organic traffic
of your target audience. You can be almost certain that people who came
to your website from search engines are specifically looking for your
type of website or product.

## Cold Outreach

Cold outreach is the act of reaching out directly to prospects and
sharing with them your website or product.

Cold outreach is a tried and tested method that, when used correctly,
can bring valuable traffic and leads to your website and product. But
there are some rules/etiquette that should be followed in order to do
effective cold outreach:

-   **Don't spam**. Don't just message prospects telling them about your
    > product. Start a regular conversation first, and then chime in
    > your product nonchalantly when the opportunity arises. Ask about
    > their problems, the solutions that they are currently using and if
    > you think that the prospect might benefit from your product, then
    > mention it to them casually

-   **Keep it short**. Make sure your proposition is short and straight
    > to the point, and outlines exactly how it will solve the problem
    > that the prospect is having.

-   **Provide value.** Make sure that you provide some sort of value to
    > the prospect *even if they don't go further down the funnel*. This
    > could be a small gift, a discount coupon, or a piece of
    > informative knowledge that is relevant to the prospect.

-   **Be humane.** Probably the most important thing is to stay humane
    > when reaching out to prospects. Don't say anything that you think
    > might offend them, be polite and compassionate. It is important to
    > stay humane simply out of respect for another human being, but it
    > also lets you emotionally connect with the prospect which can open
    > up doors for opportunity

If you are interested to learn more about cold outreach rules, you can
read this article on [10 Golden Rules of Cold Email by
Woodpecker](https://woodpecker.co/blog/10-golden-rules-of-cold-email/)

Cold outreach can be done in many different ways, the most common one
being looking for your target personas in various communities and
messaging them directly. But you should be careful not to spam too many
prospects as you might get reported and banned. So it's important to vet
people who would almost certainly be interested in your product.

Another method is automated outreach, by which you use automated
solutions to send messages and emails in buik to many prospects. This
can be a viable method if you're messaging a community that almost
entirely would be interested in your product. But again it is important
to make sure not to blindly spam your prospects and make sure that you
are providing value to them. And also be sure to read the community's
rules on automated messages, as many communities don't allow them.

In conclusion, cold outreach is a good way to engage with customers and
prospects on an individual and personal basis, and can be a good source
of traffic if done correctly.

## Social Media

Social media has huge potential for attracing visitors. It is one of the
biggest sources of organic traffic. There are various popular social
media platforms which you can leverage to attain traffic, some of the
most notable being Reddit, Instagram, TikTok, Pinterest, X(Twitter),
LinkedIn.

Each platform is best suited for a different kind and format of content,
for example Reddit is best suited for long-form written content,
Instagram is best suited for image content and short reels, TikTok is
best suited for videos, and X is best suited for short-form
messages/announcements.

Below I will go through each of the mentioned platforms and offer some
tips on writing appropriate content and methods of marketing specific to
that platform.

### Reddit

Reddit is a forum-styled community that consists of a multitude of
different user-created sub-forums, called subreddits. Each subreddit has
its own topic, for example there is are subreddits focused on discussing
productivity, or ones focused on discussing and sharing art, or ones
that are solely about sharing memes.

Besides paid ads, there are two main ways how you can market your
website/product to the Reddit audience-

-   **Posting posts in relevant subreddits.** You can post posts about
    > your product in subreddits whose members you think would benefit
    > from your product. Before posting, be sure to read the rules of
    > the subreddit, as many subreddits have specific rules that should
    > be followed, otherwise you may get your post removed by
    > moderators. Also it's worth keeping in mind that many subreddits
    > don't allow self-promotion

-   **Replying to relevant posts and comments.** Reddit is a very
    > engagement-based community - a lot of members actively engage in
    > conversations, so a good and often used method to market your
    > product is to engage in conversations on posts that are relevant
    > to your product. It is important and is general consensus amongst
    > Reddit's marketers to not just plainly advertise your product, but
    > rather mention it when someone is asking for a solution to a
    > problem that your product solves. This will reduce your chances of
    > getting banned for advertising your product.

In conclusion, Reddit is a great place to really engage with your
customers and prospects.

### LinkednIn and Twitter

LinkedIn and Twitter/X are two different platforms although the nature
of their content is largely the same. On both platforms, businesses
typically post updates about their company and products. This type of
content is more for people who are deeply interested in the company and
product and are actively following it's progress. Additionally it's a
platform where entrepreneurs typically network with each other.

Since the type of content that you typically post on LinkeIn and Twitter
are more or less the same (and also because the chart that I linked at
the beginning of the article puts them together), I have put the two
platforms under a single section.

Here are some methods of marketing that you can apply to Twitter and
LinkedIn:

-   **Replying to relevant/trending posts and comments.** Just like with
    > Reddit, you can engage directly with the community by replying to
    > posts that are trending and relevant to your product. As before,
    > make sure that you are not spamming and providing value to the
    > community even if you don't generate any leads.

-   **New feature posts/product updates.** As mentioned before, Twitter
    > is a good platform for short announcements, and both Twitter and
    > LinkedIn are good places to let your customers follow the insider
    > details of your company and product. As such they are good places
    > to post updates about your product and new releases.

-   **Devlogs.** If all or a large portion of your target audience are
    > developers, then it might benefit to also post about your
    > development work.

-   **Statistics posts.** People who follow other businesses on LinkedIn
    > and Twitter are mostly other business owners, as such you might
    > want to post some statistics about your business which might
    > benefit other business owners.

In conclusion, LinkedIn and Twitter are good for sharing insider
information regarding your product and company.

### Instagram

Instagram is a platform that is mainly focused on image-based content.
This is a great platform to utilize if your product is a product that is
best presented visually.

Some ways how you can leverage Instagram to market your product are:

-   **Weekly posts.** You can create weekly content to keep your
    > followers up to date with the development work of your website or
    > product, new features, announcements, milestones.

-   **Reels.** Besides images, In the last few years Instagram has
    > started being a popular platform for sharing short videos, called
    > reels. You can apply the same ideas as in the previous point to
    > your reels. But it is worth noting that typically Instagram users
    > have a short attention span, so it is advised to keep your reels
    > short and to the point.

### TikTok

TikTok is a platform that has gained popularity in the recent years, and
it's main content format is videos. There is a popular trend on TikTok
to post educational videos, so you can use it to post how-to's and
tutorials related to your product.

In conclusion, social media can be very effective in attaining
additional traffic to your website or product. It lets you really engage
with your audience.

## YouTube

YouTube is an online video sharing platform that has been around for
almost two decades now. It has a very big audience so if you create
videos that bring value to the viewer you can attain a significant
amount of extra traffic.

Below are some ways how you can use YouTube to market your product or
website:

-   **Creating shorts.** It is no secret that nowadays the average
    > person has a fairly short attention span. Which is why it might be
    > a good idea to create videos that are short.

-   **Creating educational videos.** Educational videos are a big market
    > on YouTube, so if you create educational videos related to your
    > product, there will likely be interest from viewers and prospects.

-   **Getting mentioned on podcasts.** If you don't have a big public
    > reach yet then you could reach out to podcasters and ask to be
    > interviewed or mentioned on their podcasts.

## Listing Websites

Another underrated way of attaining attention and traffic is to post
your product/business on 'listing websites', which are websites
specifically made to allow businesses to share their products. The most
notable two of such websites are [Product
Hunt](https://www.producthunt.com/) and
[HackerNews](https://news.ycombinator.com/news). Besides
these two websites there are many other, lesser known ones. Here is
lists of such websites:
[https://nerdrobot-e478a6c767cb0f0ba0a89ac5e0990.webflow.io/traffic-list](https://nerdrobot-e478a6c767cb0f0ba0a89ac5e0990.webflow.io/traffic-list)

## Affiliate Marketing

Affiliate marketing can be a very effective strategy to attain
customers. Affiliate marketing is when you offer a commission to someone
for every customer that has bought your product that they referred.
Affiliate marketing is best done with people who have some sort of an
audience already. These can be bloggers, influencers, etc. Typically you
would offer affiliate partnerships only to those who have an audience
that would be interested in your product.

## Partnership with other companies

This is probably a lesser used tactic. Basically the idea is to partner
with other companies who offer services/products similar to yours and
promote each other's products. This can be an effective tactic if your
audiences don't have a big overlap and can also pave a way for new
business relationships and opportunities.

## Influencer marketing

If your product is in a niche that has a lot of influencers, it might be
worth reaching out to some of them and asking them to share and review
your product in their videos/posts. They might ask something in return,
such as a payment, your product or an affiliate partnership, so be
prepared for that.

## Open source communities

If your product or service is a software, then it might be worth
participating and sharing it in open source communities. This might help
you get additional traffic, and if your software solves an important
problem particularly well, you might even get promoted by other open
source advocates, and possibly even receive a sponsorship.

## Conclusion

In this post we have explored various different ways how one can
leverage traffic sources to attain some extra traffic. I hope this
article was useful and informative to you and inspired you to utilize
some of the methods listed here to reach your customers.

Have a blessed day, peace!